PersonaLens — App Concept
Overview
PersonaLens is a hyper-personalized recommendation app that learns who you are over time and suggests things to do near you — quietly, continuously, and without making you fill out endless preference forms. It uses a multi-agent AI architecture to build and maintain a living model of you, using that model to surface 2 things you can do today or tomorrow and 2 things you can do over the weekend, all tailored to your personality, preferences, and location.
The experience gets smarter the more you use it. Every like, save, follow, reject, and chat message teaches the app a little more about you. The app always shows its reasoning — so you can trust it, correct it, and watch it improve.

Core User Experience
Signing Up
When a user creates an account, they go through a lightweight onboarding flow designed to feel like a conversation, not a form. Four to five high-signal questions replace the traditional preference survey:

"What did you do last weekend?"
"Are you more of a morning person or a night owl?"
"Do you prefer solo adventures or going out with people?"
"What's something you've always wanted to try but haven't yet?"

At the end of onboarding, users are shown an optional Persona Boost feature. This allows PersonaLens to search for publicly available information linked to their email to accelerate initial persona creation. Critically, the UI names specific platforms rather than speaking in abstractions — "We might find your Instagram, Meetup, or Goodreads profiles" — because specificity feels more honest than vague language about "publicly available data." The screen explains clearly what will be looked up, how it will be used, what won't be stored, and that the user can review and edit anything the app infers. This is entirely opt-in, and the app works just as well without it — it simply takes a little longer to learn.

The Home Feed
The main screen shows four recommendation cards at any given time, organized into two sections:

Do it soon — 2 recommendations for today or tomorrow
Plan for the weekend — 2 recommendations for the coming weekend

The 2+2 structure is intentional. It creates enough urgency to prompt action while avoiding the paralysis of an undifferentiated list. Each card includes:

The recommendation itself
A plain-language reason it was suggested ("Based on your preference for solo outdoor activities and the clear weather tomorrow...")
A confidence indicator reflecting how well-established this preference is — honest about uncertainty early on, more assured over time
Quick action buttons: Like, Save, Follow (mark as done), Reject, and Couldn't make it

The last option — Couldn't make it — is a small but important addition. It tells the app that circumstances got in the way, not preference, preserving signal quality over time. A rejection and a scheduling conflict look identical without it, and that degrades the persona.
Recommendations pull from real-time data sources including event platforms, outdoor activity databases, restaurant and venue APIs, and local guides. They account for live factors like weather, operating hours, event schedules, and distance from the user's current location.

Chat
A persistent chat interface lets users talk to the app naturally to add nuance that behavioral signals alone can't capture. These conversations feed directly into the persona. For example:

"I don't usually like waking up early, but I'm okay with it once in a while if it's something really special — like a sunrise hike on Mount Rainier."

The Chat Agent understands this as a conditional preference and updates the persona accordingly, rather than simply tagging the user as "okay with early mornings."
To lower the barrier to these conversations, the app doesn't wait passively for users to reflect. It occasionally surfaces lightweight prompts on cards or after interactions — "You've rejected a few evening group events lately. More of a solo weeknight person?" — as an invitation to add nuance without requiring the user to initiate it unprompted.
The chat interface also supports direct questions: "Why did you recommend this?" or "Show me something more adventurous" — making the system feel responsive and transparent rather than like a black box.

The Agent Architecture
PersonaLens is powered by four specialized AI agents that work together behind the scenes. All four agents share a single source of truth: a structured, living Persona Document for each user, stored as a continuously updated JSON object. The Persona Agent is the only agent that can write to it — all others read from it.

1. Persona Agent
The brain.
The Persona Agent owns and maintains the user's Persona Document. It is triggered by account creation, completed onboarding, behavioral signals, chat messages, and periodic re-evaluation.
Inputs:

Onboarding answers
Opt-in Persona Boost results (if enabled)
Behavioral delta signals from the Feedback Agent
Structured nuance updates from the Chat Agent
Time — newer signals are weighted more heavily to prevent persona drift

Outputs: An updated Persona Document capturing structured attributes (activity preferences, time-of-day tendencies, social preferences, location range, budget sensitivity) alongside freeform nuance notes ("open to early mornings only for highly rated, rare experiences").
Each attribute carries a confidence score that starts low and rises as signals accumulate. This score surfaces directly in the UI so users understand why early recommendations feel less precise.
The Persona Agent also manages an explicit exploration budget: even high-confidence personas are occasionally surfaced a lower-scoring category recommendation, giving the persona a chance to grow rather than calcifying around its strongest signals.

2. Recommendations Agent
The curator.
Runs on a daily schedule and on-demand when the user opens the app. Takes the current Persona Document, the user's location and time context, and composes the 2+2 recommendation cards.
Inputs:

Current Persona Document
User's GPS location and time of day
Live data: weather, event APIs, venue databases, activity platforms
Diversity constraints

Outputs: Four recommendation cards with titles, descriptions, reasoning explanations, confidence indicators, and source attribution.
The agent applies explicit diversity guardrails to ensure recommendations span different categories proportional to the user's persona — but with a deliberate exploration/exploitation balance. If a user's outdoor score is 0.85 and their cultural arts score is 0.4, cultural recommendations still appear periodically, weighted by a tunable exploration parameter. This prevents the app from becoming a mirror that only reflects what it already knows about you.

3. Feedback Agent
The listener.
Every time a user interacts with a recommendation card, the Feedback Agent captures that signal alongside the full context of the card: category, time of day, weather, solo vs. social framing, distance, and more.
Inputs: Interaction type (like / save / follow / reject / couldn't make it) + full card context
Outputs: A structured delta signal to the Persona Agent
Interaction types are interpreted as follows:
SignalInterpretationLikePositive preference signalSaveInterested but timing is wrong — weaker positiveFollowStrongest positive — acted on itRejectNegative preference signal — equally informative as a followCouldn't make itCircumstantial — no preference update triggered
Rejections are treated as equally informative as positive signals. A reject on a crowded festival recommendation teaches the app just as much as a follow on a quiet nature walk.

4. Chat Agent
The conversationalist.
Handles the in-app conversation interface. Rather than passively logging what users say, it interprets nuance, resolves ambiguity, and extracts structured preference updates for the Persona Agent.
Inputs: Conversation history + current Persona Document
Outputs: A conversational reply + structured nuance updates to the Persona Agent (conditional preferences, exceptions, clarifications)
The Chat Agent also generates proactive nudges — short, non-intrusive prompts surfaced after behavioral patterns emerge — to invite users into a conversation rather than waiting for them to initiate one. This addresses the core risk that the chat interface only gets used by a small subset of reflective, engaged users, leaving a lot of nuance uncaptured for everyone else.

Persona Document — Structure
json{
  "user_id": "abc123",
  "last_updated": "2026-03-27T09:00:00Z",
  "attributes": {
    "activity_preferences": {
      "outdoor":       { "score": 0.85, "confidence": 0.9 },
      "food_dining":   { "score": 0.60, "confidence": 0.5 },
      "cultural_arts": { "score": 0.40, "confidence": 0.3 }
    },
    "social_preference": {
      "value": "solo_or_small_group",
      "confidence": 0.8
    },
    "time_of_day": {
      "morning": { "score": 0.30, "confidence": 0.6 },
      "evening":  { "score": 0.75, "confidence": 0.7 }
    },
    "budget_sensitivity": {
      "value": "moderate",
      "confidence": 0.5
    },
    "location_range_km": 25,
    "exploration_budget": 0.15
  },
  "nuance_notes": [
    "Open to early mornings only for highly rated, rare experiences (e.g. sunrise hike)",
    "Prefers quieter venues on weeknights",
    "Has expressed interest in trying pottery but hasn't acted on it yet"
  ],
  "signal_history_summary": {
    "total": 38,
    "positive": 24,
    "rejections": 12,
    "couldnt_make_it": 2
  },
  "persona_boost_enabled": true
}

Privacy & Trust Principles

Persona Boost is always opt-in, with a plain-language, platform-specific explanation of exactly what will be searched before the user consents.
Users can view their full Persona Document at any time from their profile, written in plain language rather than raw JSON.
Users can edit or delete any attribute in their persona manually.
All Persona Boost lookup data is used only to seed the persona and is not stored raw — only the inferences derived from it are retained.
Behavioral data is processed to update the persona and is subject to the same visibility and deletion rights.
The app is designed to comply with GDPR and CCPA from day one, including the right to export and fully delete all personal data.


What Makes PersonaLens Different
Most recommendation apps are either too broad (Yelp showing you everything nearby) or too narrow (pure behavior matching with no room for nuance). PersonaLens sits in a different space: it combines behavioral learning, natural language nuance, and real-time contextual awareness into a single living model of the user — and it shows its reasoning, so users can trust and correct it rather than wonder why something was recommended.
The result is an app that feels less like a search engine and more like a friend who knows you well enough to say: "You should go do this tomorrow. Trust me."

